Now days we are in faster time zone. This can be growing very faster as per the early days. 
The technology as well as populations are also increasing day by day. According to the largest 
populations the government wants manage or develop the roads, because in the largest 
population’s country the traffic is the biggest issues to be face by traffic officers. But 
sometimes single officers can’t handle the larger traffic especially on festival days. Therefore 
we are research on those situations. How to manage the traffic automatically? Another situation 
is while in larger traffic how to cross the ambulance from that traffic. So this project will help
us to solve those entire problems about larger traffic. After all the research the new technology 
is highlighted i.e. Machine Learning (ML). We have use some algorithms, dataset and 
mathematical calculations which can be done by machine learning and python. The python 
programming language provides a platform to do some operations like object detection, image 
processing, video processing and so on. We have designed some algorithms which can handles 
larger traffic. Also this project has second proposed a method for helmet detection and license 
plate recognition to detect and identify the two-wheeler riders without helmet and thereby 
penalizing them. Object detection using YOLOv3 is the main concept involved. Object 
detection is performed at different levels to identify the helmet law violator and their license 
plate number. Using a License Plate Recognition API, the license plate number is then 
extracted. A database is maintained that consists of details of two-wheeler owners. An email 
consisting of violation details and a link to pay the penalty is sent to the helmet law violators. 
An interface is developed using Tkinter that can be used by the administrative officer to check 
for violators in the videos provided as input and also to monitor the entire process.
Keywords: AlexNet, Machine Learning, Python, TensorFlow, YOLO.